[Music]
consider the primate species Homo
sapiens Latin for wise man our modern
humans the pinnacle of the food chain
the strongest and most intelligent
creatures to ever walk this earth may be
now but once upon a time we had some
real competition
Neanderthals wait like cave people we're
Neanderthals our ancestors no we came
from the cro-magnon which were early
modern humans Neanderthals were a
separate branch of humans their DNA is
even different from ours so we can
safely say that Neanderthals were a
completely different species so let me
introduce Ned Neanderthal he appeared
from four hundred thirty thousand to
forty thousand years ago in Europe in
1856 Nan's relatives were found for the
first time by archaeologists in a German
valley called Neander hence the name
clever then there's Hank yep looks a lot
like any other guy you've seen and
that's because hank is a modern human a
homo sapiens he's a student at an
archaeological Institute yep once he
graduates Hank will make a living
studying ancient human species like Ned
Hank meet Ned Ned Hank as you can see
Ned is shorter than Hank the average
Neanderthal was about five feet four
inches and weighed about 160 pounds at
five feet nine Hank is obviously taller
but Ned's bones are much wider his
muscles are larger and stronger and even
his eyes are bigger Neanderthals might
have been smaller than modern humans but
they made up for it in stoutness I mean
just one of Ned's fingers is as thick as
two of Hanks yep
compared to Hank Ned looks like a
mountain of muscles but does that mean
he's stronger bigger doesn't always mean
better you know as an example Ned has a
much more massive skull because his
brain is larger than Hanks but modern
humans have more complex and efficient
brains so what's better brain or brawn
I think taking a look at these guys
typical days will help answer that
question
morning Hank the human reluctantly wakes
up from the incessant buzzing of an
alarm clock and heads to class he might
grab a piece of toast on the way out but
who are we kidding
it'll probably be a quick cup of coffee
uh-oh he's gonna be late
better book it to class oh boy Hank's
winded just from running a few feet Ned
with the first rays of the Sun opens his
eyes and heads out for food no it'll be
anything but some prepackaged ready meal
from your friendly neighborhood grocery
store like a real Tarzan
Ned makes his way through the cold
steppe thanks to his enlarged chest and
wide nostrils Ned's muscles consume much
more oxygen so on his thick muscular
legs he can easily trek 30 miles just to
find some dinner he gets to his
destination just in time a herd of wild
buffalo are grazing out on a field
afternoon
Hank hardly made it through his first
lecture and fell asleep in the second he
was awakened by his stomach growling
during the break Hank runs to a vending
machine and gets himself a sandwich and
a bag of chips
Ned tracks down his prey for two and a
half hours a 1500 pound bison that'll
feed the whole family failure is not an
option he takes a deep breath in and
runs toward the Bison armed only with a
crooked stone ax one must be incredibly
strong to emerge victorious with such a
beast and Ned has one as for Hank well
let's just say he once got the life
scared out of him by a goose that was
set on taking his sandwich and the goose
one evening after classes Hank goes to
the gym there he can bench press about
140 pounds sure it's not much but Hank's
not looking to become a professional
bodybuilder or anything as for Ned well
he doesn't need barbells to stay strong
but if he could try a benchpress
he could probably lift a 500-pound
barbell
modern humans might be smarter but
Neanderthals would win any armwrestling
match
they were anywhere from five to twenty
percent stronger than modern humans but
hey we have longer limbs so if there's
gonna be a Throwdown hand can always
just hold Ned's head at arm's length not
to mention we have masters of martial
arts on our side but even if these two
could tee off in some epic battle of the
species
Ned is a little too busy he and his
fellow Huntsman need to carry dinner
back to the cave which could be dozens
of miles away yeah it took strength and
stamina night Hank and his friends see
the latest blockbuster at the movies
then it's time to head back to the dorms
Ned is also making his way back home but
home is an ever-changing place like on
the and earth all's Ned doesn't linger
long in one place together with his
family he sets off to look for a new
spot to spend the night even on this
long cold night
Ned finds an ideal cave he can see well
enough without much Sun his eyes are
bigger and have adapted uh-oh looks like
this cave has already been taken by a
bear and it's much larger than a grizzly
but Ned doesn't care he drives the bear
away and his family can settle in their
new I'll be a temporary abode over in
his dorm Hank has ordered a pizza and is
now playing video games with his
girlfriend
Ned makes a fire in the cave and his
wife Nellie who is also much stronger in
structure than most modern men is making
clothes shoes and gloves out of the
Buffalo hi Ned is making and fixing his
tools they've both had a hearty meal of
raw meat no pots pans spices or ketchup
they ate it right off the bone Hank goes
to bed and checks his social media
before dozing off Ned exhausted after a
busy day is already asleep on his grass
bed and for both men it all starts again
tomorrow but tomorrow is a special day
happy birthday yep these two starkly
different fellas share a birthday
both are turning 20 today only net is
already middle-aged Neanderthals had an
average lifespan of only about 40 years
they grew up a lot faster than we do for
Neanderthals you were an adult at 12 can
you imagine being fully grown and
fending for yourself before you're even
a team okay so if Ned is stronger than
Hanks early ancestors then why didn't
his species survive why aren't we all
Neanderthals nobody knows the exact
answer but there are some interesting
theories diet it's possible that
Neanderthals could have been ruined by a
very bad diet consisting of only me
these tough guys hunted big-game they
were too interested in fruits vegetables
or not but when severe frost came the
population of deer mammoths bison and
other goodies began to decline
significantly Neanderthals weren't ready
for this and couldn't just up and switch
to another diet so they began to falter
off conflict with cro-magnons due to the
sharp global cooling
Neanderthals couldn't cross a lot of
distances so they were forced to coexist
with the cro-magnons who migrated from
Africa the neighborhood to put it mildly
didn't work well Neanderthals might have
been physically superior to those early
modern humans but the cro-magnons were
taller more agile and most importantly
more cunning also the cro-magnons had
throwing weapons like Spears allowing
them to triumph without even touching
their opponents studies of Neanderthal
skulls showed that they had a much
larger brain than cro-magnon but
remember having a big brain isn't enough
it's important to use it correctly
the Neanderthals large eyes showed that
these guys were perfectly able to
perceive incoming information in other
words they did what they need according
to the situation cro-magnon though
learned to analyze information they
could think up plans in advance and
United into a large try for a common
goal to defeat the Neanderthals and they
did just that also the reason for the
Neanderthals extinction could be
Neanderthals themselves look every male
risk his life daily fighting with bears
rhinos mammoths and other ancient beasts
with such a fearless and explosive
character Neanderthals could fight with
each other and it's obvious that such
conflicts didn't end well
because of this hardcore lifestyle the
number of men likely decreased so the
birthrate fell and that my friend is why
you and I aren't living in caves gnawing
on raw meat and going up against giant
woolly mammoths not that that's
necessarily a bad thing still I wouldn't
challenge a Neanderthal to a boxing
match that's for sure
finally I'm wondering if perhaps the
cro-magnons had another offshoot the
crow morons it seems that I just keep
running into them hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]